Now's the time.
The time to build.
Not everything that's built endures.
Not everything that's built remains.
Some things fall under pressure.
Some things fade with time.
Will what we build now endure?
Will what we build speak through the next generation.
We must be diligent, determined, and dedicated.
After all, his church must be built to last.
All right, good morning.
How many of you are excited to be in the house of the Lord today?
Come on, when you guys are pumped today.
This is what happens when you have a Sunday morning when you're not here.
Some of you came out last Friday night amongst Snow Palooza 2026, right?
We made it out last Friday night, had a great service, but thank you so much for being with us today.
I'm excited about today, not just because of the topic at hand, not just because what I feel God has placed upon my heart, but we are joined together today in Counter Church with our entire encounter family, our Lincoln family, our Warrensburg family, and our online family, our live with us today.
Come on, can we give it up for our family this morning?
Amen.
Those of you at either location, they encourage you, plug in today, be engaged.
Don't sit back with a little tub of popcorn and pretend that you're not even there, but be a part and let God speak into your life this morning.
You see, here's what I believe happens during a message.
If we will truly engage, God will give us what we need.
Yeah, and sometimes it may be not exactly what I'm talking about.
I can't tell you how many times I had people walk up to me after a service and they said, man, Pastor, that was a great message this morning.
God really spoke to me about, and they'll share something, and I'll say back to them, or at least I'll think into my head, that's not what I talked about.
That was nowhere in my notes, or they'll even say, well, Pastor, this morning, when you said, and they'll say something, and I'll think, that wasn't me.
I didn't say that anywhere in my message, but God knows what we need in the moment.
God knows what we need to hear.
God knows what we need to heal the brokenness on the inside.
God knows what we need to steer us and guide us in a direction that's pleasing to Him.
So let me challenge you today.
Don't just kind of sit quiet on the sidelines, but posture yourself in a place
of being receptive for Him.
Get yourself ready almost as if your hands are open to receive as He's pouring something in.
Allow Him to flow into you in a real way, not just this morning, but every time you walk into the presence of God.
I believe that God wants to do something real in this place today.
So thank you.
Thanks for being here.
Thanks for braving the cold.
How many of you are ready just to boycott winter?
Come on, come on.
You know, we boycott a lot of things in life.
I think we should just boycott winter.
Maybe something will change if we do that.
I don't know, I don't think, but it'd be worth a shot.
It never wouldn't hurt.
All right, again, we are wrapping up a series.
It's kind of interesting.
Last Sunday, we started a series.
or last Friday night, I should say, we started a series that will actually continue next week, but today we're ending a series that was two weeks ago.
Are you with me this morning?
Come on, completely confused.
This is confusion chaos, but it's gonna be good.
We're gonna wrap up a series that we spent the month of January processing through.
We laid the foundation for our theme of the year.
The theme for 2026 is build his
church.
And we're not just talking about a man-made physical building.
Yeah, we're going to talk about that building today.
We're going to process through some of that build today.
But over the last several weeks, we've taken the time to realize and remind ourselves that if we don't build on the inside, there's no way we can be effective on the outside.
You see, it doesn't matter what we do to improve a physical man-made building.
If we aren't building here and here, then nothing that we do on the grounds at any of our locations will really matter.
It will have little to no impact on eternity.
But if we will allow God to build His church, if we will say, Lord,
Here am I, Lord, use me.
God, I make myself available to you.
Lord, I ready myself for your purpose.
When we begin to do that, God builds us in a way that we never imagined we could be built.
Now, some of you today, if God was to step into your presence physically and look at you in the eye and say, here's what I have for your future, it would scare you spitless.
Come on, I understand that because when I was 24 years old and God called me into the ministry, 26 years old, if you would have told me then what I'd be doing now, I would have said, you're crazy.
You're like three fries short of a Happy Meal.
You know, your elevator doesn't go all the way to the top floor.
If something's happening here, you just don't know.
But what I did, I remember that very first credentialing interview, as God was pouring into my life, he was calling me in the ministry, and he was positioning me for such a time as this.
Little did I know that I would be here eventually.
I remember that first credentialing interview, and as I sat across the desk, there were three precipitors or higher officials in our district that were sitting there, and they began to
really challenged me in that calling and the future of what I felt God had.
And they asked me this question, son, I want you to know today.
This is how they talked in the 90s.
Brother, I just want to, I want to check with you today.
What is your call in the God has placed upon your life and where are you headed in ministry?
Those of you who have been part of this and with the God, how many of you will testify in the 90s?
That was how we talked.
Glory to God, hallelujah.
Yeah, yeah.
And you bounced a little bit on your toes too.
It was really cool.
And as I began to ask that question, it began to stir something in me.
And I looked at them and I said, I don't know.
But what I do know is this.
God called me for such a time as this.
God called me to do what he has me doing now.
What he has for the future, I don't know.
But I make myself available.
I said, in other words, I was saying, Lord, build your church in me.
But here's the deal.
His church cannot be built upon one.
Why?
Because we are his church.
He said, God, Jesus said, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
Upon this massive rock, this foundation, I will build a church that the gates of hell are powerless against.
Listen carefully, church, we have to make ourselves available to God.
We have to make ourselves available to His purpose.
We have to say, Lord, here am I, use me.
Oh, but it's easier just to come in
and find our seat.
Hang out for an hour and 15 minutes, walk out the door, grab lunch, go home and take us on the afternoon nap, and continue our day.
That's easy, right?
I believe that God's called us to something more than that which is easy.
God's called us to a greater purpose.
God's called us to a greater challenge.
You may be here today.
You may be at one of our locations.
You may be watching online and you just don't see that calling in your life.
You just don't see how God can use you because you know you owe too well.
Can I just say that God was to use you despite you?
Not to spite you, but despite of you.
Despite the fact that we fall short, despite the fact that we don't have all the answers, despite the fact that we mess up, God says, I choose you.
I've got a purpose and a calling for your life.
Today, I wanna talk about the building process, but a reminder, as I just mentioned, it's not just about a physical building here at our Sedalia location, it's not just about purchasing a building in Lincoln,
It's about raising up a body of believers that are allowing themselves to be used for the cause of Christ.
We've already dug into so many areas.
We talked to the mission, the vision, the calling.
But today I wanna look, not just about building the people, but building the physical church.
You see, one year ago, January of 2025,
We spent four weeks looking at a challenge or the make room initiative is what we called it.
This was a two year initiative.
The goal of that was to raise the funds for a building expansion here in Sedalia, but it was also to raise funds for continued ministry at all three locations.
We're gonna talk a little bit about that.
We're gonna process through what that looks like.
But I want to encourage you through all of this, don't let your mind get convoluted with the fact that we're talking some finances today.
Maybe you're here and this is the first time you've been here or maybe you've been here for a few weeks and you're like, well, I've been waiting for this moment.
Church starts talking about money.
Can I just say that Jesus talked about finances more than anything else?
And I think he did that because he knew that we'd have issues.
So we don't do this much.
It's literally been
a year and a week since we talked about finances in a message.
It's been 53 weeks.
Come on somebody.
I think it's about time.
But if you haven't yet plugged in somewhere in ministry, let me just throw this out there.
Things work better when they're plugged in.
I say it all the time.
I'll be honest.
I stole that statement from a pastor friend of mine, but they say that once you say it three times, it's yours.
So you can always say, well, my pastor says, things work better when they're plugged in.
It goes for your toaster, your microwave, anything in life.
It goes for your spiritual walk as well.
Well, with that being said, I want to look at our text today.
It's found in the book of Acts.
The book of Acts is an exciting time in the early church.
Why is it exciting?
Well, Jesus, as you come out of the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, we read the fact that Jesus died on the cross, he rose from the grave, he ascends back to heaven, but before he ascends to heaven, he tells the early believers, he says, go to Jerusalem and wait for the promise.
Now they didn't exactly know what this meant, but what they did know is they had to follow the call of Jesus.
So they began to pray.
How many of you know that things work better when we begin to pray?
When we ask God when we seek Him, though I was to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness and everything will be added, we're gonna spend the entire month of February talking about prayer.
We believe in prayer.
We believe prayer changes things.
Every great revival that has ever occurred began with people praying.
We believe that prayer brings a breakthrough to the outpouring of God's presence.
And that's what we see happening in the book of Acts.
They gathered together, the Holy Spirit fell.
That was the promise that Jesus was telling them was coming, the comforter, the paraclete, if you would.
And we're gonna talk more about that in a few weeks as well.
But as a result of their faithfulness and following after God, over and over in the book of Acts, the Bible says, and the Lord added to the church daily those that were being
saved.
So what brought us to this moment of God adding to the church daily take a look at this.
Acts chapter 2 beginning verse 42.
All the believers come on look at your neighbor today no matter if you're at a location you're here in the house say with me look at your neighbor say all
If you're online, put, I'm one of the all, put that in the chat.
All the believers devoted themselves to the apostles, teachers, and to fellowship and to sharing in meals, including the Lord's Supper and to prayer.
They all dedicated themselves.
to the teaching, to fellowship, to meals, and to prayer.
43, a deep sense of all came over them all, and the apostles before many miraculous signs and wonders, and all the believers that we've, are we seeing a trend here?
All, they were in this together, kind of like the high school musical era, right?
We're all in this together, right?
That was the early church.
A deep sense of awe came over them.
All the believers met together in one place and shared everything they had.
They sold their property in possessions and shared the money with those in need.
They worshiped together at the temple each day.
Come on.
Some of us struggle once a week.
Come on, they were gathering every day.
They met in homes for the Lord's Supper.
We can call that E groups.
Life groups, they shared meals with great joy and generosity, all the while praising God and enjoying the goodwill of all the people.
And each day the Lord added to their fellowship those that were being saved.
There was a great commitment by all the believers.
Why?
They devoted themselves.
I think it's important here that we take a moment to look at the commitment of the early church.
Let me ask you a question.
Have you ever been part of a team where there was somebody on that team that wasn't all in?
Maybe it was on a work team, maybe you were working on a project, maybe it was at your house, I don't know, but you were involved in something.
You were part of something and everybody was giving all they had, but there was that one guy that leaned on the shovel like a slacker.
If that's you, don't raise your hand today.
Did that make a difference?
Yeah, it changes the morale, doesn't it?
It causes other people to go, well, if they're not really doing, why do I need to do?
I mean, why am I busting my tail when they're over here leaning against a shovel?
What I see in the early church is their commitment was intentional.
It wasn't accidental.
And they met in the homes and they devoted themselves.
It doesn't say, hey, they were walking down the street one day and there just happened to be a meeting.
So they gathered together in that house.
Oh, they're walking down the street and they smelled pot roast.
So they went to the house of Sarah, you know, no.
No, they were intentional in their approach, not accidental.
A commitment, our commitment must be intentional.
In fact, one of our core values as a church, as encountered church is this, we are all about the mission.
Now we can take that one of two ways.
It's either we are
All, every one of us, A-L-L, all, all inclusive.
We are all, not a single one of us is left out, but we are all about the mission, or we are all about the mission.
Either way it goes, it's vital that we take the time to be intentional in our approach.
It will not happen by chance.
Did you know that?
We will not reach people for the kingdom of God
by chance.
We will not see families restored by chance.
We will not bring the lost in by chance.
We will not see healings by chance.
We will not experience the presence of God by chance.
We see this in the early church.
They were intentional.
In fact, what it is say is they were all devoted.
Now, if you look at that word devoted, I don't know about you, but sometimes I kind of nerd out when I'm looking at scripture.
I wanna know what does that word really mean because, let's be honest, the English language is a little boring.
I mean, come on, we have words that mean several things and they're completely different.
But you look at this word devoted and you go back to the original language and what they're trying to share with us is it literally means
to continue all the time in a place to adhere to or to be constant in constant readiness.
So we continue all the time in that place.
It's not a momentary.
It's not a Sunday morning devotion.
It's not a Sunday morning commitment, but it's a lifelong, I'm adhering to it.
I'm ready at any moment.
I've presented myself.
I'm continuing in this place, not by accident, but by faith.
I'm offering God all that I am.
What we're giving him is built to last faith.
Why is this important?
Well, I believe that God responds to intentional obedience, not accidental involvement.
We saw that in the book of Acts.
How did this section of scripture end?
And the Lord added to the church daily those that were being saved.
Now, I'm excited to tell you that over all as a church, it's almost weekly that at one of our locations, somebody gives their lives to Christ.
So we could say at encountered church, the Lord adds to the church weekly those that were being saved.
That's fantastic.
That's reason to celebrate.
But could you imagine if the Lord was adding to the church daily?
Oh, now I get excited when we have three, four, five, six hands raised at a Sunday morning and people giving their lives to Christ.
But could you imagine thousands at a time coming to know Christ?
Now this section here is excited.
You guys on the outskirts, you'll get there.
It'll be all right.
Could you imagine?
That's what was happening in the early church.
We'll read the scripture and it says the Lord added 3000 to the church.
What?
But I believe the reason they saw that happening, well, a couple reasons.
Number one, they were people of faith, were people of convenience.
Come on, if we're being completely transparent, come on, none of us really struggled to be here this morning.
Our biggest struggle is how many times am I gonna hit that snooze button before I get out of bed?
Right?
That's our biggest struggle.
Our biggest struggle is which coffee am I going to get at the coffee bar on the way in this morning?
That's a struggle.
But we got in our car.
We turned that heater on.
Many of you put that seat heater on and you're like, living the dream.
Right?
A lot of what we do as believers in the American church is convenience driven.
But they were people of faith.
not casual faith, not happenstance faith, but they were people of intentional faith saying, Lord, we believe that you're going to do what you said you would do.
And because of that, the Lord added to the church those that were being saved.
Now today, like I said, we're gonna talk about a building.
So if we're talking about the Sedalia expansion, why do I have all three locations
being Lincoln and and Warrensburg and online.
Why do I have them joining with us today?
Because it's really is not about a building.
It's about building his church.
We were spread yes through multiple counties, multiple locations, but truth be told, we are one church.
We are
one people.
We rise together, we build together, we advance together, we are one.
And here's what I want you to understand.
This build is not about a handful of spiritual superstars carrying everyone else, just like ministry itself must include every one of us.
This is about community.
It's about a family moving forward in the same direction.
See, when commitment
become shared unity increases, burdens are carried and momentum begins to build.
As a church numerous times over the last five years, we have moved together as one body in multiple locations in 2021.
We took our first step of faith and we brought Warrensburg on as a multi-side location.
We had never done that as a church.
There was a brand new adventure in that moment
We invested over $100,000 in expanding that building and kind of changing some rooms to get ourselves ready for the launch Easter of that year.
In 2024, we started a brand new work in Lincoln.
Come on, we took an old dollar general building.
We did a build out on that thing.
If you haven't been in there, man, it is exciting.
It's fantastic.
I walk in that building.
I'm just in love every single time.
And God is moving in both of those locations.
Last year we did some expansion in the kids area in Warrensburg.
We modified the rooms in the back.
Why did we do that?
Because we understood that our children are important.
We had to offer them the best.
We had to do what we had to do so that the kids had the best they could have.
And I'm happy to tell you, we've done all of that debt free.
Isn't that fantastic?
Absolutely fantastic.
And it's by you.
It's like me and you joining together as a body of believers, not just one location, but investing in one another of building together, of walking a journey together.
Now in 2026, we're going to expand our building here in Sedalia.
We're currently in a 12,000 square foot facility.
We're adding 18,000 square feet.
We're planning to purchase our building in Lincoln.
Right now we're renting that, purposely renting that.
But we plan to buy that building in 2026.
I'm gonna talk more about these things in just a moment.
But let me talk to you about some more numbers.
In 2025, we had 136 hands raised to give their lives to Christ.
Isn't that incredible?
Absolutely incredible.
I actually had 120 on my list and the latest data that came in just this week shared.
There was 136 people said, Lord, come into my heart, come into my life.
Make me brand new.
I want you to know that these are not inflated numbers.
We watch very carefully.
These aren't what we call repeat offenders.
Come on, if that's you, if you've raised your hand several times, praise God, keep surrendering to Him, keep doing that.
But we don't count you every single time as a first time commitment.
We're really diligent on that.
We ended the year, and I want to talk about numbers for a moment, ended the year in the Sedalia location, 100 plus in attendance from where we were January of 2024.
100 plus.
We hit a record high just at this location of 441 on a Sunday morning.
Praise God.
For several years, the board and I have talked and we said when we hit 350, we'd have to start talking to an architect.
When we hit 400, we had to stick a shovel on the ground.
Guess what folks?
We are there.
It's time to build his church.
It's time to move forward.
Now, I understand that numbers aren't everything, but what I do know is numbers help us gauge what is needed and they represent lives that are changed.
Not only do I know that, but I also know that they're writing important because there's happens to be a book in the Bible called numbers.
There's a reason why we keep track of things.
We can't ignore them.
So for the next few moments, I want to move beyond just the blueprint.
I want to see what happens when we take the blueprint that is being given and we begin to move it into action.
In other words, what happens when the blueprint becomes reality.
You see, we can have the most beautiful plans on paper.
We can hire the greatest architect
We can generate renderings, layouts, timelines, and even cost, but until we pick up a tool and begin to build, nothing happens.
I can't tell you how many times as a pastor I've walked into another church, another pastor is leading there, and on the wall is a piece of paper of a drawing, of a building that is
become age.
It's starting to yellow and that picture has been up there since like 1923 and they're like, well, one day we're going to build this church.
All they have is a dream.
But a dream without action is just a really good nap.
I think God's called us to be people of action, to move forward with Him.
I've got to move forward.
Point number one today.
Whew, that's a long time before point one.
Praise God.
Somebody say, Patrick, you can do it.
Come on, we got this.
We got this.
Truth number one, take really good notes today.
Jesus told us to consider the cost.
Consider the cost.
Look what it says in Luke chapter 14.
But don't begin until you count the cost for who would begin construction of a building without first calculating the cost to see if there's enough money to finish it.
Otherwise, you might complete only the foundation before running out of money, and then people would laugh at you.
They would say, there's the person who started that building and couldn't afford to finish.
Jesus ended this section of scripture by saying, and anyone who has an ear, let him hear.
Come on, everybody, take both of your hands, reach up and grab your ear lobe.
Come on, you all have an ear today.
We all have an ear, whether you're online or you're in a location here.
We all have an ear to hear.
Let us listen to the word of God.
Let us heed what he is calling us to.
Consider the cost.
Let's back up a moment.
Jesus starts by saying, but don't begin until you count the cost.
So what are we not beginning?
Well, Jesus here is talking about being his disciple.
But I believe this can apply to us building his church.
So I want you to know that as a leadership team, we've considered the cost.
We had a capital campaign in 2025.
Many of you were there, but like I said, the scenario location, we are 100 to 140 up from where we were last year at this time.
So there are a lot of new faces that perhaps have never heard any of this.
We had our capital campaign.
Let me just tell you, it was very successful.
We had a celebration moment.
We popped confetti cannons.
We celebrated together.
It was fantastic.
We thought that we had what we needed.
We had what the architects said we needed.
But how have you know, sometimes architects and contractors don't have the same calculator.
So when we got the numbers from the contractor, the number was more than double what the architect told us.
So what did we do?
We considered the cost.
We went back to the drawing board.
We made adjustments.
We modified the building not just once, but several times.
I would sit in my office and I would put the drawing up on my computer and I would just stare at it.
I would dream and I would think and I would process and I would put it into a program and I would move things around and I would share with the board and say, hey, what do you guys think?
And then I would send it to the architect and he would make modifications.
He'd send it back.
We'd make adjustments.
So before I share the cost, let me show you where we stand to you.
Let's look at a couple of pictures this morning.
Look at picture number one.
This is coming from Parkhurst.
You can see
There's an entrance right there.
It's kind of where the office area will be.
A couple parking spots right there.
There'll also be parking spots along this side.
Go to the next one.
Here's a drawing, the layout.
The current building is here.
There'll be a lobby will continue through a little corridor and it cannot be connected because of firewalls and all that.
So there'll be a connection here.
We'll come through right here as an office area.
Currently as a church, we have people officeing out of both baptism changing rooms on both sides of the room.
Joe, our creative arts guy, a lot of times is down here at the sound booth, officeing there.
He also offices out of here, but if you walk in there, I don't know how he offices out of there.
Those of you that were in there yesterday for our security team, you'll understand what I'm talking about.
When our location passes come in, Pastor Adam, literally he offices off of a rolling file cabinet,
in the main office.
That's a great desk.
That's fantastic.
We even made him a little name plate out of paper.
It depends on his mood, whether he's like a little whiny tiger or he's like an official tiger.
So he's got his little things there, but we're gonna bring all the offices together into one general area here.
We're gonna have some gathering, collaborating area, some pods, and some breakout offices, a boardroom, my office, operations, pasture, that kind of thing.
All here, more bathrooms.
Apparently that was a big, big thing when we first started all this.
Y'all want more bathrooms?
Ta-da, there you go.
Flush away, my friends.
Plenty of bathrooms there.
New coffee bar area.
We've got, oh, look here.
We've got a nursing mom room right here or a cry room.
Two different sections, a cry room area and a nursing mom's area.
riding here.
So there's a place where we'll have the service piped in there where our young mamas can go in with their babies and be able to still watch and listen to the message and the service all while taking care of the little one.
Here we'll have a room for our serve team to gather and prepare and put all their stuff right now Some of you ladies you throw your stuff all over the building you stash in every nook and cranny in the place While you serve and then you collect it you're gonna have a place right here my friends As you come in you can come in a main entrance is actually gonna be here main parking Over here, but parking will also go around
down here as well as around here as well.
A little bit of parking on this side and along this wall here.
The parking lot's gonna be kind of massive all the way around.
So our goal is to have like an extended golf cart that we can come get you if you have trouble walking.
So we'll make sure that you are good to go.
You don't have to make that trek by yourself.
We'll try to get you taken care of.
So main entrance to be right here.
You can come in here.
You can come in here, you can come in here, you can come through here.
A lot of options.
Worship center, we will take our worship center from 250 seats currently to 512 seats here.
And that awesome, absolutely incredible.
So about, oh, let's say about two thirds of those seats will be here on the floor and in the back we'll have what we call stadium seating.
So it'll be kind of a rise type, not risers.
but steps with chairs on them towards the back.
So there'll be a, not be a bad seat in the house.
You can all see quite well some backstage things, a green room for the worship team, some changing room for baptism.
That way when you have a baptism, you're not either running outside or drip drying your way through the worship center down the lobby to the bathroom.
Come on, some of you have done that.
We're going to fix that.
We're going to have changing rooms right back here for you.
So that'll be great backstage area.
and some storage and different things like that.
Go to the next one.
This is potential.
This is not in the budget, but this is a dream.
This is what we want to do.
This room that we're currently in.
Now, we're currently in the worship center if you're at a location.
The current worship center will get converted into kids ministry.
So rather than being upstairs where they currently are, we'll bring the kids downstairs.
Upstairs will be converted to youth.
We'll do some major modification up there for the youth, and that will be their area.
Down here, we'll have kids.
We'll put some secure doors right here.
That's the swinging double doors that you come into in the back of the worship center.
We'll have secure doors here.
Child check-in, three different spots.
Maybe not necessarily here, but somewhere in this little lobby area.
The coffee bar comes out.
That's why the line is gray.
That bathroom in the office comes out.
Because an adult classroom, adult classroom, the e-lounds will also continue to be an adult classroom.
So we'll have classrooms for the adults here.
You walk in here through the secure door.
Kids will have bathrooms of their own.
Come on.
That's fantastic.
So we're going to have those, the one for the boy, one for the girls.
E-kids will have theirs.
That'll be right back here towards the back right of the worship center.
Their ceiling will go all the way up.
This will give them a nice grand, large, exciting room when they walk into.
E-Kits Junior Nursery and Hangout will be here in the front area.
These will be a one story because if we go two story for a toddler, that's a massive room, right?
So we're gonna lower that ceiling.
That will also allow us to have storage all the way across the top.
This area here, which is kind of this back area, back left, is a potential future kids' room as we continue to grow.
We'll split this classroom into two classrooms.
So it's kind of a dream where we want to go.
That's not in the budget, but we believe by faith we can accomplish that as well.
Okay?
Let's go to the next slide.
I got to keep moving here.
All right.
So this is that main entrance that I was talking about.
So you'll come in here.
Now, if you walk in this door, which is that small or that double door that's never used in the back of the worship center or back of the lobby back here, the one that's locked currently, that is actually that door right there.
This will be the main entrance.
This will be a good kids entrance.
Next slide.
This is another view of that same area.
Again, that's that main entrance.
That's the kids area.
There'll be some signage to tell you what's what.
Next slide.
I love this.
This is going to be a courtyard.
So current building here, new building.
This is the office area, new worship center and lobby.
This is going to be a courtyard.
This will actually, the plan is to have some outdoor bistro tables, maybe some playground equipments so that during the week, if you want to swing by and pick up a cup of coffee or Sunday morning, you want to pick up a cup of coffee, you can then go out and sit in the courtyard and just kind of hang out for a while.
Like I said, we're planning on maybe having some playground equipment.
So if you come in during the week, bring the kiddos, let the kiddos play on the swing set while you're hanging out with your friend, drinking a cup of coffee.
Okay, next slide.
This is a mock up of the lobby.
Again, this is just a mock up.
We haven't settled anything particular, but this is a possible area.
The new coffee bar area will be right here.
That's the entrance into the worship center.
The next one will be a worship center picture.
Again, just a mockup of what that would look like.
So this is sitting up in one of the riser areas or the stadium seating areas looking down into the worship center.
Next one.
This is an overview from the highway, kind of an overview of what that looks like.
Again, main entrance and in this kids area or the kids entrance.
All right.
Isn't that exciting?
Yeah, so good, so good.
So that's what we're looking at.
We're considering the cost we've processed through.
We've actually modified, originally, if you remember, the building went out into the lower field.
We realized that that was not cost effective.
That was going to cost us, truth be told, about $180,000 to move dirt.
As a board, we did not feel that was being wide stewards.
We would rather put $180,000 into a building
rather than moving dirt.
Yes?
So therefore we're moving this direction and then that direction, we will stop right at that drop off.
They'll modify some of that so that we take parking on down into that area.
So what's gonna happen with parking?
We'll have temporary parking, they'll establish parking with gravel.
So during the construction time, we'll have a place to park.
Truth number two, the early church accepted the challenge.
They consider the cost
and they accepted the challenge.
Now let's take a moment and look at the early church.
It says, all the believers were united in heart and mind, and they felt that what they owned was not their own.
So they shared everything they had.
The apostles testified powerfully to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and God's great blessing was upon all of them.
There were no needy people among them.
But those who owned land and houses would sell them and bring the money to the apostles to give to those in need.
Let me give you a little relief today.
You ready for this?
I am not asking you to sell your house and give all the money to the church.
You guys are like, oh, praise God.
Yeah, I'm not asking that.
That's what the early church did.
That's how they function.
That's what they did.
I'm just simply asking you, consider the cost and rise to the challenge.
So let's talk cost.
What's the overall cost?
What have we raised and what do we need?
These are three vitally important questions.
First, what's the cost?
The building construction, just for the building itself, is $4.35 million.
And then we add to that $500,000 for audio, visual lighting and finishes, all the interior stuff.
So it'll all end cost of $4.85 million.
for this expansion.
Wow.
We're going to talk about Lincoln in just a moment.
So what have we raised?
Well, currently we have in hand just shy of $3 million.
Within the next couple months, we will hit that $3 million mark.
We have commitments, all in commitments for $3.35 million.
that leaves us a deficit of $1.5 million that we still need to complete the build.
Now, we have already been talking with the bank.
We're processing through that.
The membership over a year ago already approved us taking a loan for $1.5, but I'm going to be honest with you.
That's going to be a struggle because that's a big payment and I don't want
an expansion to limit ministry.
When we first got into this thing, we talked about ministry.
And if you remember, the numbers were higher than because we included ministry aspect.
We're just talking about the building today.
I never want a building payment to dictate what we can do ministry.
Ministry is vitally important.
Ministry is why we're here.
We're not here for a building.
The building is just a venue that God uses so that ministry can be done.
Come on, are you with me today?
So we need $1.5 million.
I believe that God has called us to raise that amount.
But I also believe that now is the time to build.
You see, we could say, well, let's just keep raising.
Let's keep raising.
And one day and one time we'll be able to build.
But I want you to know with the cost rising,
That number is going to continue to go up of what we need.
It's already gone up since we started this.
Now, for those of you that have been part of the 3.35 last year, you filled out commitment cards.
I want to say thank you.
Thank you for your faithfulness.
Thank you for being a part.
Don't stop now.
Let's finish strong.
It was a two-year commitment.
How many of you know?
Sometimes that last leg of the race is the hardest.
You're tired.
You're worn out.
The devil's been going, you can't do that.
You can't do that.
You can't finish.
You can't make it happen.
But I want you to finish strong.
I want you to fight the fight and do what God's called you to do.
So thank you.
Thank you for your faithfulness.
Thank you for your continued giving.
Thank you for helping us continue ministry at all three locations.
Ministry is vitally important.
But what we're looking at today is the building side.
If you're fairly new, I would invite you to join us in this mission.
This is the final push.
This is the final leg of the journey.
I believe that we can raise the majority, if not all, of the 1.5 million.
I have felt that since day one.
In fact, I asked God yesterday, I said, God, am I being naive?
You know, sometimes we can be naive.
But I had that question, God, am I just being naive?
Is this even possible?
And I just fell to my spirit, God says, I can do this.
Just trust me, just trust me.
And I wanted to say, well, I trust you more if you happen now, right?
But I believe that God's gonna do this.
If we go back to the early church, well, by the way, the more that we can raise, the less that we have to take it alone.
I would rather do this debt free.
We're also desiring to purchase our link and location.
We've already come up with a committed price with the guy that owns the building.
We've already made that agreement and I'm negotiating some things with him currently.
But we'd like to buy that building in 2026 as well.
The reason we didn't buy it originally is because we knew that if we had to take a loan, we didn't want to have a loan and shoot ourselves in the foot.
So we're trying to be kind of proactive in that process.
But we've got to raise some funds.
If we go back to the early church, it's important to remember that they knew the cost, but they met the need.
They rose to the challenge.
For them, selling property wasn't simply spontaneous generosity.
It was calculated sacrifice.
They sacrificed in so many ways.
They sacrificed their time.
They met together each day.
They sacrificed their resources.
They sold what they had and they gave it to those in need.
They sold or they gave of their comfort.
They realized that unity and advancement was so much more important than self-gain or self-comforts.
A little bit King David said in 2 Samuel, he says, I will not offer my God a sacrifice that cost me nothing.
See, a sacrifice is a surrender of something of value for the sake of something or someone else.
Are we willing to make a sacrifice for eternity?
Our final point today is this.
Building to last requires everyone building together.
It will take every one of us.
I said it earlier.
It's not just a small handful of superstars.
but we are all the church.
Every location, we're in this together.
Just like we were all in this together when we modified Warrensburg and did the build out in Lincoln.
Just as we were all in this together when Warrensburg modified the kids' room.
Just like we're gonna be all in this together with future locations when we launched down the road.
We are all part of a greater family reaching this region for the cause of Christ.
And we were all
Devoted.
Come on.
That was the early church, right?
It's gonna take us all.
Let me be clear.
When we talk about building expansion, we're not changing the mission.
We're supporting the mission.
We're not taking off mission areas that we support on a monthly basis.
We're not limiting ministry.
We're continuing all of those things.
We're taking new ground for the cause of Christ.
What I'm asking you in this season
It's much the same that the early church faced.
I'm asking you to pray intentionally what role would God have you personally or as a family?
What role would God have you to do to participate in this greater calling?
Don't respond at a pressure.
Don't respond at a guilt.
Don't respond because the person next to you responds.
But respond because you feel like God is speaking to you.
That's all I'm asking.
I'm not asking you to do this because somebody else is.
The goal is to begin to break ground the very beginning of April.
This timeline is crucial.
Why?
Because ministry is already happening.
Growth is already occurring.
The question we must answer is this.
How do we create space for what God is already doing?
That's what we're looking at.
And I believe it's gonna take a financial sacrifice.
There are many of you who have already doubled what you've been giving.
There are many of you who have dove into some retirement and you're giving that.
There's others of you that have given sacrifice.
There's some of you that are giving for the very first time you've never given before, but you felt God challenging you in this moment.
I wanna encourage you.
Listen to the call of God and respond.
I believe that as we do this, we're making room for children to be discipled for students, to grow for adults, to be spiritually mature and for lives, to be eternally changed.
So the question that we have to ask ourselves is this, do we believe that what God is building is worth the cost?
If the answer is yes, then something must be done.
I've shared statistics in the past, 69,000 people in our three counties alone, 20,000 in Pettis County, 39,000 in Johnson County, and 10,000 in Benton County claim no connection with God whatsoever.
I believe that God's called us to build His church.
So here's what we've got.
In this room in Sedalia, in your seats were a card.
At our locations, the ushers are coming right now.
If they haven't already passed those out to you, the ushers are coming.
They're going to pass those cards out to you right now at Lincoln and in Warrensburg.
And this is just a modified card from last year.
If you filled this out last year, this card is not for you unless God is calling you to modify what you did.
But this is for anybody who has not yet been able to jump on the journey.
Simple card.
This is our commitment.
And then has a blank, what we normally give in one year.
Then there's another blank, our expanded generosity for make room.
That's the make room initiative.
So maybe you don't give anything right now.
Maybe you're just starting.
So you put zero and then a hundred bucks, thousand bucks, 10,000 bucks, a hundred thousand, a million.
I don't know.
1.5, we keep going.
And then you add that together.
What I wanna do with this, and I'll be honest, I've really toyed with how to handle this moment.
In fact, I told some of the leadership this morning, I said, I don't know what I'm gonna do.
I don't know how I'm gonna collect this.
And I still don't, I'm still wrestling with what to do.
Some of you were thinking to yourself, well, I'd really like to go home and talk to my spouse about that.
And I get it.
I'd really like to go home and pray about that.
I get it.
Some of you are like me.
You're like, man, I'm one of those guys.
I just kind of like jump off the cliff and then look for a rope.
You know, I'm just going to trust God.
Come on.
Any cliff jumpers in the house?
Come on, somebody.
Man, we'll figure it out a little way down.
We may have a few bumps and bruises if we hit rock.
We'd be all right.
I know where I'm going.
So I want you to take this card this morning.
I want to pray.
And then we're gonna take just a few moments.
And if you feel like you're ready to fill that card out, whether you're here or Warrensburg or Lincoln, and if you're online and you need one of these, hey, reach out to us.
We'd love to chat with you on this.
But again, don't give at a pressure.
There's no.
Pressure.
If you feel like God's calling you do this, let's respond to that.
That's the heart.
So I want us just to pray.
And then we're going to take a moment.
We're going to fill this out.
And then the ushers are going to come by and they're going to collect that all three locations.
We're going to collect.
If you feel like, Hey, I need to hold on to this.
Cool.
Next week, I'm going to give you an opportunity.
once again to turn these things in.
But if you feel like you're ready to fill one out today, I want to do that.
Okay?
So everybody, grab that, put that in your hand.
Let's pray, Lord.
Lord, speak across this room right now.
Lord, speak at all three locations.
Speak to those online.
Look, truly, we are all in this together.
We're not by ourselves.
We're not attempting on our own.
But Lord, we believe that You've called us to this.
We believe that You've prepared us for this.
We believe that You've provided.
Lord, and You're going to continue because Your Word says, He who began to good work will see it to completion.
Lord, You're not done.
We've raised.
In hand, and we'll have with the next couple months $3 million.
Lord, we need another 1.5, if not more.
We need money for Lincoln.
Lord, would you step in?
Lord, speak across this room right now.
Challenge our hearts in Jesus' name,
We pray.
Amen.